Add migrating go video. (#1348)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-images/videos/migrating_go.md

It's extremely simple.

All we're doing is creating a web server that listens on port 8080 and responds with the text: "Hello world."

We also have a Dockerfile to build our application.

It's extremely simple as well.

We're using the Dockerhub Golang image, copying over the source, and running Go build.

So let's try building that.

I've built it before, so that ran really fast.

We can try running it.

I should be able to access it.

Okay, so that all works.

It's a really nice, simple Go web server.

Let's take a look at how we can change it to use a Chainguard Image.

The easiest thing we can do, literally a one-line change, is just to modify this to point out the Chainguard Go image.

With any luck, that will build just the same.

So I'll go back to this original build statement.

We'll call it something different so we can compare it later.

Okay, that's built.

Now we want to check it runs.

I do need to first stop the old one.

Okay, let's try running it again.

It's running.

Let's check it works.

Okay, so that works identically.

A one-line change, and we've made no difference to the actual running application.

But let's investigate this a little bit more.

> So if I do 'docker images' on go-web-app, well this is a pretty large image at 892 megabytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if I do `docker images` on `go-web-app`, well this is a pretty large image at 892 megabytes.
```

More interestingly, if I try Docker Scout Quick View to take a look at the CVEs, if I run it on Go web app, we can see there's 42 lower vulnerabilities in there.

So there's quite a bit going on in there.

We can also see there's 303 packages.

So there's a lot of stuff in this image.

Let's compare it to the Chainguard Image.

There's no CVEs and there's only 85 packages.

So this one change has really improved the security posture by getting rid of these 42 low CVEs.

But there's a lot more we can do.

Let's take a look at the Dockerfile again.

So we're using this Chainguard Go image, but we don't need everything in this image when we're actually running the image.

We just need the Go compiler, for instance, to build the server, but we don't need the Go compiler in the final image.

So what we can do is create a multi-stage build.

And I'm going to use the Chainguard static image to house the final production application.

So the static image is really simple.

It has very little in it, just sort of the minimum you need to run a typical Linux application.

So it has TLS certificates so you can talk to web applications over TLS.

> It has Unix directories like /tmp and /home, and it doesn't have a lot else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has Unix directories like `/tmp` and `/home`, and it doesn't have a lot else.
```

It's only a few megabytes in size, but contains a few more things than say scratch that you need for typical applications.

OK, what we're going to do here is I'm going to copy from the previous build to the Dockerfile up here.

> I'm going to copy the hello executable, which is at /work hello to /hello.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm going to copy the `hello` executable, which is at `/work/hello` to `/hello`.
```

Now it said copy from builder, so I'll need to name this first step builder.

And that will build this hello executable and copy it into my production image.

> And then my entry point is now /hello.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then my entry point is now `/hello`.
```

So there is one more thing we need to do.

The static image does not include any libraries like glibc or anything.

> It just has it's just for running statically compiled binaries.

Reviewer: I think something is missing in this line

Author: Should be fixed.

So we need to tell Go to produce a statically compiled binary that contains everything it needs to run and doesn't rely on system libraries.

And we can do that by saying cgo enabled equals zero.

In some cases, you might find you need to pass a few more flags, depending on which Go libraries you use.

And I'll link a blog in the notes that explains when you need to do this and what you need to do.

> But in this case, cgo enabled equals zero will allow us to build our static binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But in this case, `CGO_enabled=0` will allow us to build our static binary.
```

So I think that's all I need to do.

We'll see if I got it right.

Let's find the Docker build step.

I'm going to call this distroless.

So when you create an image with just the bare minimum in it to run your application, we quite often call it a distroless image.

No, it doesn't even have a shell or a package manager.

OK, let's see.

Let's see if that builds.

Yep, that built.

Excellent.

I think I still have the old one running.

So let's get rid of the old web app.

No, I always get that wrong.

OK, and let's run this one.

> I call it web-app-distroless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I call it `web-app-distroless`.
```

I hope so.

That's running.

Let's see if it works.

Excellent.

So this application still works exactly the same as it did at the start of this video.

> But if I take a look at the web app distroless, the big difference is that now it's only eight point five megabytes in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if I take a look at the web app distroless, the big difference is that now it's only 8.5 megabytes in size.
```

> So we went from the original Golang image, which is eight hundred and ninety two megabytes, to a Chainguard Image, which was seven hundred seventy five megabytes, down to eight point five one megabytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we went from the original Golang image, which is 892 megabytes, to a Chainguard Image, which was 775 megabytes, down to 8.51 megabytes.
```
